Basic information.md, before:

# Github Workflows
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions





## Events that will trigger workflows:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/events-that-trigger-workflows





## Sequenced jobs:
Add `needs: ["job-we-are-waiting-to-finish", "another-job"]` on the root job level, that's it besides the `runs-on:`





## Important environment variables:
GITHUB_SHA = The ID of the commit that was pushed, unless deleting a branch
GITHUB_REF = The ID of the current branch





## Dispatch event:
https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/repos#create-a-repository-dispatch-event

POST request to:
https://api.github.com/repos/{owner}/{repo_name}/dispatches
https://api.github.com/repos/KenjiEmura/GitHub-Actions/dispatches

Inside your .yaml file, you have to add the 'repository_dipatch' hook after the 'on':
```
on:
  repository_dispatch:
    types: [webhook]
```

Auth:
Github API key

Header:
Accept -> application/vnd.github.v3+json

Body:
"event_type": "custom_event_name"
client_payload is a JSON payload with extra information about the webhook event that your action or worklow may use, for example:
"client_payload": {
  "build_type": "production",
  "description": "Some additional information..."
}





## Filter pattern:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#filter-pattern-cheat-sheet
We can use filters if for instance, we wan to run our workflow when only a certain file/folder/type of file/branch is modified.





## Github ENV variables and encryption:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/environment-variables

To encrypt your ENV variables, you can simply add them to the Secrets (inside the settings of the repository)
and access them via the ${{ secrets.YOUR_SECRET_HERE }}, so for example if we have to put an API_KEY, we will do this:
```
  env:
    API_KEY: ${{ secrets.YOUR_SECRET_HERE }}
```
Nonetheless, a secret can only be 64kb, so in that case we will need to encrypt and decrypt 'large' files that hold those secrets. Another case scenario is for example a CLI that takes as an argument the path to a file that contains all the keys and secrets, for example there might be a service that we want to use that instead of having the next structure `android deploy API_KEY_KEY` it might have this form `android deploy /folder1/folder2/ my_secret.json`. In this case, the file might be below 64kb, but since the command that we want to use requires us to pass in a path to a file, we are being forced to commit and push that ` my_secret.json` file. This will be another case in which we might need to use encryption and decryption of files.
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets

For that we can use a tool called GnuPG (https://www.gnupg.org/) which can be easily installed using `brew install gnupg`

After installing it, we can run the next command to encrypt our file:
`$ gpg --symmetric --cipher-algo AES256 my_secret.json`

We then set our passphrase and to decrypt the file while running remotely inside the workflow, we can use:
`gpg --quiet --batch --yes --decrypt --passphrase="$PASSPHRASE" --output $HOME/decrypted.json my_secret.json.gpg`





## Authentication in a workflow
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/authentication-in-a-workflow
Without setting any secret, we have access to the ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }} for authentication.





## Expressions ${{  }} context and functions
You can put variables and also functions inside `${{}}`.

The objects created by Github and available inside an expression are called **context**, so for example, in `${{ secrets.PASSPHRASE }}`, the context will be the 'secrets' context. In the link below, you can find a list of all available context:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/context-and-expression-syntax-for-github-actions

We also have some fuctions that we can run inside the expressions, for a more detailed explanation, check the official documentation:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/context-and-expression-syntax-for-github-actions#functions

Additionally, we can use some satatus check functions as expressions in `if` conditionals, for example we can use this functionality if we need some step to ALWAYS run even when some previous steps have failed. (see the job_status_functions.yaml for implementation)





## timeout-minutes
By default, you can use the timeout-minutes property to set the maximum amount of time that a job or a step can take. If the process takes more time than the speciefied, it will kill the process. The default value is 360 minutes, so if you think that you will need more than that, you can just simply specify that amount. For example:

```
jobs:
  sample-job:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    timeout-minutes: 1440
      steps:
        - name: Sample Step
          run: --your commands here--
          timeout-minutes: 60
        ...
```
In this case, we set the overall job's max time to one day and the 'Sample Step' to one hour.






## Setting up a Node Version
https://github.com/actions/setup-node

Commit message:

Running our jobs in different systems

Basic information.md, after:

# Github Workflows
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions





## Events that will trigger workflows:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/events-that-trigger-workflows





## Sequenced jobs:
Add `needs: ["job-we-are-waiting-to-finish", "another-job"]` on the root job level, that's it besides the `runs-on:`





## Important environment variables:
GITHUB_SHA = The ID of the commit that was pushed, unless deleting a branch
GITHUB_REF = The ID of the current branch





## Dispatch event:
https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/repos#create-a-repository-dispatch-event

POST request to:
https://api.github.com/repos/{owner}/{repo_name}/dispatches
https://api.github.com/repos/KenjiEmura/GitHub-Actions/dispatches

Inside your .yaml file, you have to add the 'repository_dipatch' hook after the 'on':
```
on:
  repository_dispatch:
    types: [webhook]
```

Auth:
Github API key

Header:
Accept -> application/vnd.github.v3+json

Body:
"event_type": "custom_event_name"
client_payload is a JSON payload with extra information about the webhook event that your action or worklow may use, for example:
"client_payload": {
  "build_type": "production",
  "description": "Some additional information..."
}





## Filter pattern:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#filter-pattern-cheat-sheet
We can use filters if for instance, we wan to run our workflow when only a certain file/folder/type of file/branch is modified.





## Github ENV variables and encryption:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/environment-variables

To encrypt your ENV variables, you can simply add them to the Secrets (inside the settings of the repository)
and access them via the ${{ secrets.YOUR_SECRET_HERE }}, so for example if we have to put an API_KEY, we will do this:
```
  env:
    API_KEY: ${{ secrets.YOUR_SECRET_HERE }}
```
Nonetheless, a secret can only be 64kb, so in that case we will need to encrypt and decrypt 'large' files that hold those secrets. Another case scenario is for example a CLI that takes as an argument the path to a file that contains all the keys and secrets, for example there might be a service that we want to use that instead of having the next structure `android deploy API_KEY_KEY` it might have this form `android deploy /folder1/folder2/ my_secret.json`. In this case, the file might be below 64kb, but since the command that we want to use requires us to pass in a path to a file, we are being forced to commit and push that ` my_secret.json` file. This will be another case in which we might need to use encryption and decryption of files.
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets

For that we can use a tool called GnuPG (https://www.gnupg.org/) which can be easily installed using `brew install gnupg`

After installing it, we can run the next command to encrypt our file:
`$ gpg --symmetric --cipher-algo AES256 my_secret.json`

We then set our passphrase and to decrypt the file while running remotely inside the workflow, we can use:
`gpg --quiet --batch --yes --decrypt --passphrase="$PASSPHRASE" --output $HOME/decrypted.json my_secret.json.gpg`





## Authentication in a workflow
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/authentication-in-a-workflow
Without setting any secret, we have access to the ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }} for authentication.





## Expressions ${{  }} context and functions
You can put variables and also functions inside `${{}}`.

The objects created by Github and available inside an expression are called **context**, so for example, in `${{ secrets.PASSPHRASE }}`, the context will be the 'secrets' context. In the link below, you can find a list of all available context:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/context-and-expression-syntax-for-github-actions

We also have some fuctions that we can run inside the expressions, for a more detailed explanation, check the official documentation:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/context-and-expression-syntax-for-github-actions#functions

Additionally, we can use some satatus check functions as expressions in `if` conditionals, for example we can use this functionality if we need some step to ALWAYS run even when some previous steps have failed. (see the job_status_functions.yaml for implementation)





## timeout-minutes
By default, you can use the timeout-minutes property to set the maximum amount of time that a job or a step can take. If the process takes more time than the speciefied, it will kill the process. The default value is 360 minutes, so if you think that you will need more than that, you can just simply specify that amount. For example:

```
jobs:
  sample-job:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    timeout-minutes: 1440
      steps:
        - name: Sample Step
          run: --your commands here--
          timeout-minutes: 60
        ...
```
In this case, we set the overall job's max time to one day and the 'Sample Step' to one hour.






## Matrix of environments: strategy option
We will use Node to test how to set up different environments with different versions:
https://github.com/actions/setup-node
